# Personal_Voice_Assistant

A Python based project to create an AI voice assistant. The voice assistant works with people to do simple tasks.


### About Mike :

A Pychram based AI personal voice assistant called Mike was created. It is able to carry out simple tasks that the customer has developed and comprehend human speech. The Mike activates and executes user commands when the user specifies the proper trigger words. 

Mike AI Voice assistant:"Loading Your Personal Assistant Mike...
                          Hello, Good Morning" (Greets the user according to time)



### The implemented Voice assistant can perform the following tasks:


1. Opens a webpage : Youtube , G-Mail , Google Chrome , StackOverflow 
	
	
		Human : Hey Mike, Open Youtube
		
		
2. Predicts time 
	
	
		Human : Hey Mike , What is the time
		
		
3.Fetch Top headlines from Times of India
	
         
		Human:Hey Mike , what's the latest news?
		
		
4. Captures a photo
	
  		
		Human:Hey Mike, Take a photo
		
		
5. Searches data from web
	
   		
		Human: Hey Mike, Search Butterfly images from web
		
		
6. Ask geographical and computational questions
	
  	 	
		Human: Hey Mike, What is the capital of California? / Hey Mike what is Sin 90?
		
		
7. Predict Weather of different Cities
   		
	
		Human: Hey Mike , What is the weather likely now in Hyderabad?
		
	
8. Abstarct necessary information from wikipedia
	
   		
		Human: Hey Mike , Who is Elon Musk according to Wikipedia
		
		
   The voice assistant abstarcts first 3 lines of wikipedia and gives the information to the user.
	
	
9. Ask Mike about what task it can perform and who created it
	
   		
	  	Human: Hey Mike, Who created you? / Hey Mike , What can you do
		
		
10.Turn off your pc when required
   		

   		 Human: Hey Mike , Please turn off my PC



### Libraries required to be installed using Pip Command:
	
	1.Json
	
	2.request
	
	3.Speech recognition
	
 	4.Pyttsx3
	
	5.Wikipedia
	
	6.Ecapture
	
	7.time
	
	8.Wolfram Alpha


### In-Built libraries required to be imported:

	1.os
	
	2.datetime
	
	3.web browser
	
	4.subprocess



Mike uses Third party API's to predict weather in different cities and to ask computational and geographical questions. 
Free API keys can be generated by creating an account in the following applications.  
	
	Open Weather Map - To forecast weather
	
	WolframAlpha - To answer questions
	



